[JIG PLAYING ON FIDDLE]
[CROWD CHATTERING AND LAUGHING]
[CROWD CHEERING]
[CROWD LAUGHING]
MAN 1: Let's hear a few words
from our fair hostess.
Come on, Shannon. Give us a speech.
CROWD [IN UNISON]:
Speech! Speech! Speech!
Uh, yes, of course.
On behalf of the Blake clan,
myself included...
...I want to welcome
all of our mighty competitors...
...to the first ever
Loch Ness Highland Games.
CROWD:
Hooray!
SHANNON: And I want to thank all of
the volunteers who helped us transform...
...the ancient grounds of Blake Castle
into a first-rate tournament field.
Now the Blakes
can finally be known for something...
...besides getting themselves
into trouble, eh, Shannon?
I just hope
we can survive the embarrassment...
...should you be
our winning contestant, Angus Haggart.
CROWD: Ha-ha-ha.
MAN 2: She got you, Angus.
That's my brother you be speaking to.
If anyone's got claim
to be embarrassed by him, it's me.
Aye, then. What do you say
we start the games early?
- Biggest splash wins.
- Oh, you're on.
Wait! No!
[CROWD CHEERS]
[CROWD LAUGHS]
Please, guys, get back in the boat.
What? Afraid the Legend of the Loch might
be coming back for a midnight snack?
SHANNON:
This isn't funny.
ANGUS:
If I didn't know any better, Shannon Blake...
...I'd be thinking you believed
in the Loch Ness Monster.
Aah! What the...?
No, it cannot be.
[ALL SCREAMING]
Colin! Angus! Get out of the water now!
Hold on!
We're double-anchored. She won't move
an inch until we hoist them up.
[ALL SCREAMING]
Brace yourselves!
MAN 3: I don't understand what happened.
MAN 4: What was that?
MAN 3: What happened?
MAN 5: I don't know what to think.
- Are you all right, Shannon?
- MAN 6: Silence!
For a thousand years
it has swam in the shadows below.
[THUNDER CRASHES]
DUNCAN: You have disturbed the spirit
that haunts these waters.
Too afraid to sleep at night?
Trembling in your beds with fright?
'Tis not the darkness drawing near...
...but the Loch Ness Monster
you should fear.
[THUNDER CRASHES]
[CAR APPROACHING]
[GRUNTS]
DAPHNE:
Ah, how beautiful.
The Scottish countryside
is so lush and green.
FRED:
Yeah. Just like a giant golf course.
Jinkies, Daphne.
It must be exciting to visit Blake Castle...
...the ancient home
of your Scottish ancestors.
DAPHNE: It sure is. And I can't wait
to help my cousin Shannon...
...host the Loch Ness Highland Games.
Oh, I even accessorized
for the occasion. Look.
I'm planning to wear this
for the opening ceremonies...
...in honor of the Blakes of Loch Ness.
Like, it's not the Blakes of Loch Ness
I'm worried about.
Are you, by chance, referring
to the legend of the Loch Ness Monster?
Monster?
Yeah. And, like,
why are we going to some place...
...that's already got
a monster named after it?
Makes no sense.
Legend of the Loch. Get real.
It's just another big fake, right, Velma?
I'm not so sure about that.
Jeepers! You believe
in the Loch Ness Monster, Velma?
- Like, that makes three of us.
- Yeah. One, two, three.
Well, I believe it's a mystery.
This monster is different.
There have been over 2000
Loch Ness Monster sightings...
...dating all the way back to 540 A.D.
- That's almost 1500 years ago.
- SHAGGY: Zoinks! Like, a monster...
...that's been scaring people
for more than a thousand years.
DAPHNE: Don't worry, Shaggy,
Loch Ness has miles of shoreline...
...and I bet Shannon knows
a lot of good places to have a beach party.
Beach party? Hear that, Scoob?
We can have a clambake
with the clan Blake. Ha, ha.
Yeah, clambake. Ha, ha.
[GPS BEEPING]
That's it, gang. Loch Ness, dead ahead.
SHAGGY:
Like, did you have to say "dead"?
Wow, this fog is as thick as pea soup.
Oh, boy, pea soup.
Come back, Scoob.
It's just a figure of speech.
[SCOOBY HUMMING]
Huh?
[YELPS]
What's the matter, old buddy?
Monster. Monster!
Monster? Like, don't tell me.
I don't wanna know.
[CREATURE MOANS]
- Man! What is that?
- What in the world?
Can we get closer?
Freddie! The road!
[ALL SCREAMING]
When I said get closer,
this isn't exactly what I meant.
Did we just see what I think we saw?
Whatever it was, it's gone now.
Come on, gang. This loch water
could shrink my genuine vinyl upholstery.
[GASPS]
Jeepers. Guys, look, I think we're here.
There's Blake Castle.
[ALL MURMURING]
Oh, I just got this baby hot-waxed.
Wow, look at all those tents.
I wonder if there's a circus in town.
That's the sports field
for the Highland games...
...a competition featuring
traditional Scottish sporting events.
[BLOWS WHISTLE]
[COMPETITOR GRUNTS]
Like, who's ever heard
of the telephone-pole pitch?
Huh?
FRED: That's the caber toss, Shaggy.
It's a test of strength and skill.
When they invent a game that tests
eating and sleeping, let us know.
[SHAGGY & SCOOBY CHUCKLE]
The tent colors work for me,
but that crashed sailboat totally clashes.
VELMA:
Jinkies! I wonder what happened.
FRED:
Come on, gang, let's go check it out.
- DAPHNE: Shannon!
- Daphne!
- Oh.
- I can't believe I'm really here.
Guys, this is my cousin Shannon.
We should have known
by her great sense of color coordination.
Well, of course. After all, she is a Blake.
Wow, what happened
to your boat, Shannon?
Oh, that? Well, um, you see...
[HORN HONKING]
[PSYCHEDELIC ROCK MUSIC PLAYING
ON STEREO]
Wow, cool ride.
No, no, no, what are you doing?
This whole area
has to be roped off for evidence.
- Not now, Del.
- A friend of yours?
Hardly.
We've... We've got 20 eyewitnesses.
A large wake. Something big,
something really, really big.
[DEL GASPS]
Why can't it ever be something small?
Something really, really small?
- Whoa.
- Unh.
This is major.
SCOOBY & SHAGGY:
Hmm?
Don't you see? It's because of the games.
- All the activity has disturbed the creature.
- Zoinks!
[MAN LAUGHS]
MAN: The only disturbed creature
around here is you, Del Chillman.
Why, my own sons were out there,
and they're not spooked a bit.
- Angus was scared.
- I was not, Colin.
I'll break your neck like that. I...
[BLOWS WHISTLE]
That's enough.
Save it for the games, laddies.
Now, come on, go on down to the track.
Off you go.
But... But, Mr. Haggart, wait.
You are in great danger, sir.
You can't just ignore this.
We could try.
Ugh. You'll see, man.
I told you those games were a mistake,
Shannon.
Now the monster's after you!
[ON STEREO]
Took me a long time to get back on the train
By the way, big party at Stubby's tonight.
Supposed to have a band.
Now I'm gone and I'll never look back again
I'm gone and I'll never look back at all
DAPHNE:
Wow, Blake Castle.
I've waited my whole life to see this.
There's over 800 years
of Blake family history...
...within these walls.
Ours is a rich history
of falling through trap doors...
...finding dangerous secret passageways,
and getting caught...
...in overly complicated booby traps
of our own design.
The one thing we Blakes
have been known for is being...
How shall I put this? Heh.
Danger-prone.
What?
- Stunning architecture. Love the gargoyle.
- Huh? Oh. Uh, nothing.
Despite all these years of misfortune...
...no one at Blake Castle has ever
had any trouble with the monster.
SHAGGY:
Like, that's what I like to hear.
That is, until now.
Like, zoinks.
It actually began just a few nights ago.
I was by myself, down at the boat dock.
All of a sudden, something very big
and very fast came cruising into the cove.
It disappeared below the surface,
and I lost sight of it.
When I fell asleep that night...
...I awoke to the strangest sound
I'd ever heard in all my life.
[CREATURE MOANING]
[THUNDER CRASHING]
[GASPS]
[SHANNON SCREAMS]
[ROARS]
And then it was gone. Just like that.
[ARMOR CHATTERING]
Come on, you two, out of the armor.
SHAGGY:
Like, ever heard of "Scotland the Brave"?
Well, meet Shaggy the chicken.
Yeah.
[SCOOBY CLUCKS]
Jeepers! So the monster
isn't locked in the loch?
VELMA: Many people claim to have seen
the Loch Ness Monster on land.
When I woke up the next morning...
...I tried to tell myself
that it was only a dream...
Oh, it was not a dream. And last night's
shipwreck was no accident.
It was the great beast of the loch.
Zoinks! Who's the creepy lady
in the beret?
I don't know.
- Everyone, I'd like you to meet...
- Professor Fiona Pembrooke.
Scotland's most accomplished
Loch Ness expert...
...and author of the book
Legend of the Loch.
How marvelous. What a pleasure to meet
someone who's done her proper research.
I read that you're
still trying to prove the monster exists...
...even though it has destroyed your career,
demolished your scientific credibility...
...and devastated you financially.
Apparently, too much research.
Wow, professor, these new pictures
of the Loch Ness Monster are amazing.
I was out on the loch by myself that day
when all of a sudden, there she was.
Right next to my boat.
VELMA: Well after the world sees these,
everyone will believe in the monster.
Ach, I wish it were that easy, dear.
SHANNON:
Dinner is served.
I've prepared a traditional
Scottish dinner for you...
...so you'd all get
a good taste of the Highlands.
And, like, we're ready to start tasting.
Right, Scoob?
- Right.
- We'll be starting with haggis.
A true Scottish delicacy.
SHAGGY:
Wow, like, what's in it?
Oh, it's just a boiled sheep's stomach...
...stuffed with diced liver and kidneys.
[DISH CLATTERS]
Zoinks! It's the monster!
That's no monster, it's a man.
IAN:
Dear me. Terribly sorry about that.
Still, quite a smashing entrance,
don't you think?
Sir Ian, you've arrived.
Welcome to Blake Castle.
IAN: Yes. Please excuse the window,
Shannon, my dear.
I found this caber outside,
and I couldn't resist...
...giving it a good toss,
for old time's sake. Ha, ha.
No, no, that'll be fine.
Everyone, it's my honor to introduce...
...the head field judge
for this year's Highland Games.
VELMA:
Sir Ian Locksley.
Director of the Scottish
Natural History Museum...
...and author of the book
Monster My Foot.
Velma, do you have a book
for every occasion?
- Actually, yes.
- So let me get this straight.
You're a museum director
and a judge for the games?
Now, that's what I call multitasking.
Sir Ian, according to your book...
...you believe the Loch Ness Monster
is all a bunch of hooey.
Yes, yes. Hooey, nonsense,
poppycock and fiddle-faddle.
Now, there you are.
You've got your autograph.
And I've got an entire weekend free...
...from any further mention
of the Loch Ness...
Good gravy!
What in the blazes are you doing here?
Hello, Ian.
You two know each other?
Ian and I were once colleagues.
Colleagues? Hardly.
She was my research assistant.
Aye, before you had me fired.
I was trying to run a museum.
I can't have one of my staff
spending all their time...
...chasing after imaginary monsters.
She's not imaginary, Ian.
We've been through this before.
Well, this should be
an interesting dinner.
I don't think the two of them
will make it past the appetizers.
Now, see here.
Please, both of you,
we're all sharing the castle tonight.
Let's put our differences aside for now.
Have you seen the field, Sir Ian?
- It's fantastic.
- Oh, yes, my dear.
Brilliant.
Reminds me of the games of '74.
That man has absolutely no regard
for true scientific discovery.
Like, the only discovery I'd be interested in
is an all-night pizza joint.
Yeah! Pizza joint!
[GROWLING]
Scoob, with your stomach
growling like that...
...we'll never get to sleep.
Like, how far is it
to the nearest vending machine?
Okay, unless we're completely lost...
...the kitchen should be
right around the corner.
Did I say kitchen? Ha, ha.
I mean, creepy hallway.
Okay, like, maybe it's this way.
- Yikes!
- Zoinks! Like, wrong turn.
[SCOOBY WHIMPERS]
It's okay Scoob, like,
just keep telling yourself...
...there's no such things as monsters.
There are no monsters. There are no
monsters. There are no monsters.
[YELPS]
- What is it, Scoob?
- Monster! Monster!
Like, boy, do I hope you're wrong.
Look. Heh. Look, Scooby-Doo.
It's just a tree branch
knocking against that window. Ha, ha.
That's nothing to be afraid of.
[SCOOBY LAUGHS]
Now, the kitchen's
got to be around here somewhere.
Let's try down this way.
Now, stay close, buddy.
We don't want anything scary
sneaking up...
[STAMMERS]
Ghost!
SCOOBY:
Ghost? Where?
[BOTH LAUGHING]
BOTH:
Huh?
SHAGGY:
Like, run for it, Scoob!
[SCOOBY SCREAMS]
[BOTH PANTING]
We did it, Scoob. Safe and sound.
Like, zoinks!
I think we just
locked ourselves outside of the castle.
SCOOBY:
Uh-oh.
Well, look at the bright side, Scoob.
At least it's not raining.
[THUNDER CRASHES]
Good thinking, old pal.
It'll take more than a rainstorm
to dampen our spirits. Ha, ha.
[BOTH YELP]
[CREATURE ROARS]
[GROWLING]
[ROARING]
Ahh! Like, zoinks! It's right outside!
- It's Shaggy and Scooby.
- SHAGGY & SCOOBY: Huh?
Guys, what happened?
Scooby. Stomach. Bats. Kitchen.
Rainstorm. Chase. Monster.
Yeah, monster.
And I thought we Scottish spoke funny.
They went searching
for a late-night snack...
...and were chased down here
by the monster.
[CAMERA CLICKS]
Well, something made these footprints.
FIONA:
This is extraordinary.
Just what I needed. Fantastic.
Oh, curse me kilts, can't a man get
a decent night's rest without...?
[GASPS]
Oh, dear me. No.
No, not the games field. It's ruined.
Oh, this is an outrage.
Look what you've done.
Like, it wasn't our fault.
It tried to eat us. We barely survived.
Tell me. What tried to eat you?
[BOTH GULP]
Like, the Loch Ness Monster.
For the last time, there is no such thing...
...as the Loch Ness Monster!
[IAN'S VOICE ECHOES]
But, Ian, look. The proof is all around us.
IAN: Miss Blake, I do not wish to spend
one more moment at Blake Castle.
Hey, like, us neither. We'll call a cab.
- Hit it, Scoob.
- Taxi.
There you go, governor.
Step lively. In you go, now.
Boy, vacations never seem to last,
do they?
[SHAGGY CHUCKLES]
Don't forget to write.
Are we there yet?
[SHAGGY & SCOOBY YELL]
Whoa. Quick trip.
SHANNON:
Wait, Sir Ian, wait. Please!
Young lady, you see that you have
the game field in order by opening day...
...or I'll see to it that Blake Castle
never hosts anything larger...
...than a miniature-golf tournament!
Driver.
- Well, that didn't go well.
- I believe you could say that.
- Jinkies!
- What? What is it, Velma?
The footprints.
They don't lead to the loch.
They lead into town.
Why would a sea monster
walk along the road?
Well, gang, looks like we've got
another mystery on our hands.
Only nobody's been able to solve
this one for 1500 years.
Monster or no monster...
...I don't know how we'll ever get
the game field repaired.
Don't give up yet, Shannon.
We just need a little help, that's all.
I've got it! First thing in the morning,
we'll head into town.
I know just the bloke to help us.
Here we are, gang. Welcome to Drumna...
Drummy... Uh, Dramunono...
- Drumnadrochit?
- Gesundheit.
[SHAGGY & SCOOBY LAUGH]
DAPHNE:
Oh, this little village is so darn cute.
Like, total grooviness.
There's a bunch of little shops,
a town square...
...the Loch Ness Monster,
a nice flower garden.
[SCOOBY GULPS]
BOTH:
Loch Ness Monster?
Take it easy, guys. That's no monster.
It's just a big balloon filled with helium.
[SHAGGY CHUCKLES]
- Like, we knew it all along, right, Scoob?
- Yeah! All along.
- ANGUS: Unh. Hold it!
- No, you hold it. I'm holding it.
Come on, lads. Tie her down.
Oops, slipped right out of my hands.
Aah! That's real funny, Colin.
So long, Angus. Don't forget to write.
[LAUGHING]
Eh, it's just a joke, Dad.
Hang on, nitwit, I'm coming!
I asked for jocks,
and you sent me jokesters instead.
Wow, Mr. Haggart,
from the size of that balloon...
...I'd say you must be
the biggest Nessie believer in the world.
[LAUGHS]
Me? No, laddie.
Truth is, I do not believe in her at all.
But the more people that do believe...
...the more money she brings
to my hotel.
- Hmm.
- Very hmm.
Mr. Haggart,
can we have a word with you?
Now, Miss Blake,
what brings you to town, then?
Shouldn't you be out at the games field...
...keeping an eye out for more
of your scary monster sightings?
[LACHLAN LAUGHS]
Laugh if you want,
but there may not be any games at all.
These photos were taken last night,
and the games are tomorrow.
LACHLAN:
Ach, the game fields. That cannot be!
Whether you believe
in the monster or not, Mr. Haggart...
...we're running out of time.
Aye, right you are, lass.
Boys, come quick.
These are for you, mate.
- There you go.
- Like, thanks.
[SCOOBY GASPS THEN GRUNTS]
We've got trouble brewing at Blake Castle.
Brace yourselves, lads.
I'm sorry you've got to see such a thing.
Come on, Colin. Let me see.
[BOTH YELLING]
Hold on!
LACHLAN: Now round up some help
and get down to Blake Castle...
- ...as quick as you can.
- COLIN & ANGUS: Yes, Dad.
Huh?
Whoa.
Stupendous! Tremendous!
Nessie's trying to tell us something.
I've gotta get to the castle.
My monster needs me.
- SHANNON: No, Del. Wait.
- Waiting time is Oversville.
She's trying to talk to me.
And I am ready to listen.
Please, Del, we've still got the games
to think about.
The games?
No, no, no, that's the problem.
If it weren't for those games,
Nessie would be happy and healthy...
...and minding her own business, man.
I've got to get over to Blake Castle...
...before those Haggart hooligans get there
and ruin the vibe, man.
You guys keep on keeping on.
[PSYCHEDELIC ROCK MUSIC PLAYING
ON STEREO]
FRED:
Well, good monster hunting!
DUNCAN:
Don't be a fool.
There's no such thing
as good monster hunting.
Like, words to live by.
Uh-huh.
This is our dockmaster,
Duncan MacGubbin.
Duncan MacGubbin?
I've heard that name before.
You hold the record for the most
Loch Ness Monster sightings.
Aye, that I do.
Forty-one.
Though I take no pride in the fact.
Since you're the dockmaster,
Mr. MacGubbin...
...maybe you could point out
Professor Pembrooke's boat.
- She said we could take it out on the lake.
- That's "loch." Hmph.
Now, there be the professor's craft.
FRED:
Oh, uh, out at the end of the "dake"?
That's "dock."
This Scottish stuff can be complicated.
VELMA:
It's an old fishing boat.
She's nearly as old as myself...
...and twice as leaky.
She'll do you fine.
But I warn you,
do not go looking for trouble's view.
At Loch Ness,
trouble can come looking for you.
Like, he should be writing
scary greeting cards.
SHAGGY:
I sure wish I'd brought along my floaties.
VELMA:
So do I.
There's only four life jackets on board.
Maybe there's more down here.
[GRUNTS]
- It's locked from the inside.
- That's strange.
I guess two of us
will have to stay behind.
You mean split up and search for clues?
I like it.
Shaggy and Scooby
volunteering for shore duty.
Aye, aye, captain.
Hey, maybe Shaggy and Scooby
should take the Mystery Machine.
Good idea.
What?
Don't worry, Fred.
We won't get a scratch on her.
[THUD]
Uh, make that two scratches.
Suddenly this boat seems like
a much safer place.
[TIRES SCREECH & HORN HONKS]
I'm taking her up to full throttle.
Let's see what this baby can do.
Aye, aye, captain.
- FRED: Woo-hoo! I'm king of the lake
- Uh, loch.
Things look pretty clear from up here.
SHAGGY [SINGING]:
You take the high road
And I'll take the rocky road
Like, rocky road ice cream, that is.
Ha, ha.
Hey, Scoob, we going the right way?
Uh-uh.
Oh. Uh-huh.
Great. As long as we follow the road signs,
what can go wrong?
Like, are things getting creepier
and spookier, or is it just me?
SCOOBY:
Uh-uh, me too.
DAPHNE:
Anything coming up on the sonar, Velma?
Are you kidding?
This sonar system is so old,
it couldn't pick up a radio station.
That's strange.
I know her research funding is limited...
...but she's obviously not spending
any of it on new equipment.
[SONAR BEEPING]
Hey, we might have something.
There's a large target
off the portside bow.
Look, something's moving
along the surface.
It's her. She's back!
Freddie, now would be a good time
for one of your famous plans.
FRED:
Uh...
Uh, got it!
Throw all the nets overboard.
Velma, run that line
through the yardarm tackle.
Aye, aye.
You mean, this little boat
is going to catch that gigantic monster?
FRED:
That's plan A.
Looks like you got a bite.
[CREATURE MOANS]
Okay.
ALL:
Whoa!
[ALL YELLING]
- Uh, Freddie, what's plan B?
- Uh, we'll head for the shore.
- VELMA: Forward, Fred. Forward.
- Don't tell me, tell him.
Her. It.
We just lost the engine.
Look out!
SHANNON:
At least we're cut loose from the monster.
Great, we'll call that plan C.
Look, the buoys.
Oh, boy.
DAPHNE:
Here she comes!
- She's gone.
- But gone where?
DAPHNE:
She went under the boat and disappeared.
SHAGGY:
Like, Scoob, old buddy...
...I've got a feeling
we're not in Coolsville anymore.
- Unh.
- Unh. Huh?
Zoinks! Like, I think we're stuck.
Wow, look at the size of that pothole.
Yikes!
[ROARS]
Shaggy! Look!
Okay, I'm looking, but I'm not liking it.
Aw, it's only a little salamander.
[BOTH LAUGH]
[SALAMANDER SCREAMS]
[PANTING]
SHAGGY: Like, wait, Scoob!
We gotta stay with the van!
[SCREAMS]
[SCOOBY WHIMPERING]
[CREATURE GROWLING]
[CREATURE ROARS]
Wow. Like, I think we lost her, Scoob...
...but, heh, heh,
what happened to the road?
And for that matter, the land?
[BOTH SCREAM]
Like, Houston, we have a problem.
Mayday! Mayday! Mayday!
- That sounds like Shaggy.
- Shaggy?
- Where are you guys?
- SHAGGY [OVER RADIO]: Like, incoming!
What the heck?
Somebody get that guy's license.
Doggie license?
Are you sure this is where
you saw the monster, Shaggy?
Hmm, let me see.
Like, zoinks! It's the monster!
Yeah, yeah. This is the place.
DAPHNE: Look. These monster tracks
turn into tire tracks.
FRED:
They sure aren't from the Mystery Machine.
Hmm. Who's ever heard of a monster
with a driver's license?
FRED: Uh, sorry about your engine,
Professor Pembrooke.
- VELMA: And the net rigging.
- And your refrigerator.
What happened to the refrigerator?
- Oh, heh, nothing.
- Yeah, uh, nothing.
FIONA: Don't worry yourselves none.
It was all in the name of research.
And it sounds like
you had quite the sighting.
Sighting? My eyes were closed
the whole time. Ha, ha.
Me too.
Well, at least the games field
is looking good as new.
Guess we owe the Haggart brothers
a hearty thanks.
- Yeah, but where are they?
- Heh, those jokers?
If goofing off
were a Highland games event...
...Colin and Angus would be champions
for sure.
Speaking of goofing off,
where's Scooby?
Like, way to go, Scoob.
Here, let me have a peek.
Okay.
SHAGGY:
Hey, look at that.
There's a groovy ship
way out there on the loch.
SCOOBY:
Uh, Shaggy, look.
[FOGHORN BLARES]
Zoinks!
IAN:
Ahoy, there.
Captain Ian Locksley at your service.
Man, like, that barge is on a charge.
[IAN GRUNTS]
Oh, dear, oh, dear!
I'm terribly sorry about that, Miss Blake.
That's quite all right, Sir Ian.
I'm kind of getting used to this.
Yes, of course. That'll do, then.
Secure the bowline. Anchors aweigh!
Like, with Sir Ian around,
who needs a monster?
Yeah. Ha, ha.
Well, well, well, I should have known.
Sir Ian Locksley,
a Nessie true believer after all.
IAN:
Believer? Ach. Nonsense, Fiona!
I'm here to protect the games field.
I am going to patrol these waters...
...to make sure nothing else
peculiar happens.
Loch Ness is now under my command.
FIONA:
You can't do that.
IAN:
I can and I will.
I hereby declare
that no boat other than mine...
...is to be allowed
in the vicinity of Blake Castle.
FIONA:
Oh, and how could you stop me?
By having
that floating scrap pile condemned.
Now, I suggest you finish your repairs
and be on your way.
Ooh. Blow it out your bagpipe.
IAN:
Why, I never.
This boat's got more surprises in her
than you will ever know.
[EXPLODES]
VELMA:
Uh, Professor Pembrooke?
Perhaps we should go with Sir Ian
to search for more clues.
Brilliant. Perhaps we'll make a believer
out of him yet.
That's it, men. Weigh the anchor.
Zoinks! Like, I think the anchor's
gonna weigh more than usual. Ha, ha.
Yeah.
This sure is impressive equipment.
So multifunctional.
Totally. I've got high score.
[BEEPS]
Hey. What happened to my game?
Um, Fred, I think you were playing
the digital compass.
Well, I still got high score.
I've networked my laptop
into the ship's computer.
This way, I can monitor the sonar
and download the information.
Very well.
Huh? Oh.
Say hello to the Ocean Motion 3000.
With it, we can track
our position by satellite...
...while simultaneously
scanning the contour of the loch floor.
- SHANNON: Ah, look!
- McIntyre, report.
Sir, target spotted
bearing 60 fathoms at 30 knots.
VELMA:
It's nearly 20 meters long.
DAPHNE:
It's gone!
A target that size
surely cannot just vanish.
There must be some explanation.
Whatever it was, it's probably hiding
in an underwater cave.
SHANNON:
Aye, Loch Ness is famous for them.
I wish there were some way
we could check it out.
Speaking of checking out...
[SHAGGY WHISPERS INDISTINCTLY]
[SCOOBY WHISPERS INDISTINCTLY]
Yeah.
Great idea, Scoob.
What a groovy hiding spot.
Nobody will find us in here.
I must say, it looks like your friends
fancy my minisub.
That would be perfect
for exploring the loch.
Would you mind if we borrowed it?
- Do you think you could pilot such a craft?
- Sure.
I drove my van into the loch
just yesterday.
SHAGGY: Scoob, next time
I'm picking the hiding spot.
SCOOBY: Sorry.
FRED: Hang on, folks.
Once the magnetic arm releases us...
...it's splashdown!
[BOTH SCREAM]
FRED:
Whoa, cool.
This is great.
All it needs is a styling green paint job...
...and it'll be the bomb-diggity.
VELMA:
It even has a sonar-activated camera.
SHANNON:
Activating exterior lights.
Now, all we need to do is find the entrance
to the underwater caves.
It's darker down here
than I thought it would be.
Monsters. Monsters!
- Huh?
- Monsters! Help!
FRED:
Look out, Scooby.
VELMA:
It's just a school of eels.
DAPHNE:
Fred, watch where you're going!
I would if I could.
Look, I think we found the entrance.
- Really?
VELMA:
It is the cave.
And I thought it would be impossible.
Nothing's impossible when you've got
Scooby-Doo around.
Aw, shucks.
[SCOOBY CHUCKLES]
Is it my imagination,
or are we in shallow water?
Prepare to surface.
[ALL CHATTERING]
- FRED: Hello!
- Please don't do that, Fred.
- Why not?
- I'm afraid something might answer.
[SHAGGY CHUCKLES]
[SCOOBY SNIFFING]
Yummy, bones.
[YELPS]
[WHIMPERS]
Huh? Huh?
Scoob, you okay? Oh, man.
You guys might wanna check this out.
It looks like Scooby found
where Nessie tosses her leftovers.
I think we've stumbled across
a burial ground...
...used by ancient Scottish warriors.
If they buried their dead down here...
...that means there must be
a secret entrance back up to the surface.
SHAGGY:
Hey, guys, ha, ha, check us out.
- We're a couple of brave warriors.
- Yeah.
[BOTH LAUGH]
Hey, gang, take a look at this.
It's a screwdriver.
But what's it doing down here?
FRED:
Maybe they were handy ancient people.
- Freddie.
- What?
What would ancient warriors
be doing with a modern screwdriver?
Uh, guys, if you think that's fishy,
just look behind you.
[ALL GASP]
[GROWLING]
- Jinkies!
- Get to the submarine.
Come on, you two!
- We're trapped, Scoob!
- Oh, no.
I guess the only thing we can do now
is fight our way out.
- Remember, we're brave warriors.
- Yeah, brave.
Like, get ready to taste the steel
of McShaggy and Scooby McDoo!
Well, she tasted it, heh, heh,
and I think she liked it.
VELMA:
Shaggy! Scooby!
Let's get out of here.
This place is a real dive.
The creature is following us.
SHAGGY: Like, take the picture, Velma,
and let's go home.
VELMA: We can't. The sonar camera
is mounted on the front of the sub.
DAPHNE: We'll have to turn around
if we're gonna do a photo shoot.
VELMA:
Head straight up that canyon wall.
[BOTH YELLING]
We just lost our portside sensor.
- Careful, Freddie.
- Sorry.
VELMA: Twenty-five more meters.
It's a straight shot to the surface.
VELMA & SHANNON:
Fred, look out!
I see it.
[ALL YELLING]
- She's gonna ram us.
- Hang on.
[ALL SCREAM]
Like, who knew
you could get airsick in a submarine?
[SCOOBY GROANS THEN BURPS]
Great catch, McIntyre.
[ALL SIGH]
SHAGGY:
Like, now can we go home?
FRED: Gang, with the games starting
tomorrow, we'd better get some shuteye.
SHAGGY: Yeah, like, I'd hate to be tired and
cranky during the monster's final rampage.
We can't go to bed yet.
There are too many unanswered questions.
[RUMBLING NEARBY]
Like, I've got one. What is that noise?
It's coming from inside
the Mystery Machine.
[DEL SNORING]
FRED:
Del?
- I think he's sleeping on your poncho.
- That's okay, he can keep it.
[GASPS]
Oh, hey, guys.
Sorry, I was down here at the castle...
...you know, trying to connect
with Nessie's energy...
...and somebody ripped off my van, man.
- Your van's been stolen?
- From Blake Castle?
Like, wow, and it seemed like
such a good neighborhood.
We've got to solve this mystery tonight.
And I know just the person
to help us do it.
Professor Pembrooke. Come in, professor.
Do you read me?
SHANNON: She shouldn't be out
on the loch alone, especially tonight.
DAPHNE: I hope nothing's happened to her.
FRED: She's probably just out of range.
VELMA: She could be all the way down
at the other end of the loch by now.
- DEL: Maybe she's following the monster.
- Or maybe it's following us.
[CREATURE ROARING
& GANG SCREAMING]
[GROWLS]
[ALL SCREAM]
Oh, yeah? You want some of this?
Come and get it, you overgrown lizard.
Um, technically, Freddie,
the monster wouldn't be a lizard.
Lizards are ectothermic...
...whereas this monster
is clearly amphibious.
DAPHNE:
Not the time, Velma.
[IN BRITISH ACCENT] Hello, governor.
Care for a sweep of the old chimney, then?
[SCOOBY HUMMING]
[GROWLING]
[ALL SCREAM]
[BLEATS]
FRED:
Hold on!
[CREATURE GROWLS]
[ALL SCREAM]
Daphne, I can't see.
Your sweater's in the way.
DAPHNE:
That's not my sweater.
[BLEATS]
[ALL SCREAMING]
SHANNON:
It's a peat bog. You've got to stop.
FRED:
No problem.
[CREATURE MOANING IN DISTANCE]
- Uh, guys?
- She's coming!
This is the moment
I've waited for my whole life!
[GROWLING]
[ALL SCREAM]
I think we need to take a closer look
at this monster.
DAPHNE: Jeepers! This is one sea serpent
that could use some moisturizer.
That's not skin, it's canvas. Grab on.
GANG:
Del's van!
Oh. She's not real?
[SIGHS]
But... My van!
- There's no one inside.
- They must have escaped.
FRED:
Hey, check it out, gang.
Del's treads match
the tire tracks we found earlier.
So someone's been using my wheels...
...to fake us out this whole time?
But this doesn't add up.
Del's van couldn't have chased us
through the underwater tunnels.
Or attacked us on the boat.
And Shaggy and Scooby were chased
by the creature last night.
VELMA:
Before Del's van was stolen.
- This can only mean one thing.
- More than one monster.
So Nessie's still out there. Right on.
Nessie or no Nessie,
this van hoax proves...
...there's somebody behind
at least part of this mystery.
There's only one thing left to do.
[IN NORMAL VOICE] Take a two-week
vacation to a tropical paradise?
[BLEATS]
Bahamas.
Yeah, like, the Bahamas.
No, you chickens,
we've got to head back to Blake Castle.
I've got a plan.
SHAGGY: Really, Scoob, is there anything
we won't do for Scooby Snacks?
Ah.
Uh-uh.
Shaggy and Scooby are in position.
Is everyone else ready?
Sonar's up and running.
Everything is clear outside the cove.
[OVER RADIO]
We're standing by. Over.
VELMA [OVER RADIO]:
Fred, how's the trap coming?
FRED:
Uh, roger that, Mama Bird.
This is Baby Bird, and we do have copy.
We are go. Alpha, Bravo, Charlie.
Baby Bird, over and...
Yeah. Um, hi, it's Del. We're ready, Velma.
Uh-oh, hang on, I think we got a problem.
Fog's rolling in fast.
Uh-oh.
I've lost visual on Scooby and Shaggy.
Velma to Shaggy, come in, Shaggy.
Are you two okay?
Negatory on that, Velma.
We got a major problem down here.
Like, we're all out of Scooby Snacks.
[SCOOBY WHINING]
[BEEPING]
DAPHNE:
Sir Ian, you better come take a look at this.
SHANNON: There it is again.
It's heading right into the cove.
- Good gravy.
- I'll call Velma.
Let's not be hasty.
McIntyre, what's going on?
What? No, you can't do this.
This is mutiny.
McIntyre:
Forgive me, Sir Ian...
...but I've come up with a little plan
of my own.
I intend to capture that creature
and sell it...
...for quite a handsome amount of cash.
Catch it? How are you going to catch it?
The old-fashioned way.
Wow, like, I can't see a thing.
This fog is so thick
you could cut it with a knife.
Hey, Scoob, what do you say
we sit back-to-back...
...so nothing can catch us off guard?
SCOOBY: Okay, Shaggy.
I'd like to see
old Fang Fins try to sneak up on us.
- Right, old buddy?
- Yeah.
[SCOOBY CHUCKLES]
Fang Fins. Ha, ha.
Jinkies! The monster is in the cove.
Repeat.
The monster is in the cove.
Tie off your end, Del. I'm going across.
Hit it, man!
SHAGGY [SINGING]:
Row, row, row your boat
Gently down the...
VELMA:
Shaggy and Scooby, can you guys hear me?
Shaggy here. Who's calling?
It's Velma. Now, listen.
You're right on top of it.
Like, thanks for the compliment.
Hey, Scoob, Velma says
we're right on top of things.
No, Shaggy, listen.
It's really beneath you.
You know, I've always thought
being live bait was beneath us too.
- Me. Me!
- Hang on, Velma. Scooby wants to say hi.
- Wait!
- Hi, Velma.
Scooby, listen.
Your boat is on top of the monster's head.
Velma, like, I think we found the monster.
Hang on, guys, help is on the way!
You heard him, Scoob. Hang on.
- Whoa!
- SCOOBY: Whee!
[SCOOBY CHUCKLES]
[BOTH GRUNTING]
VELMA: Nice job, Fred.
The monster's trapped in the cove.
FRED: How about that, Velma?
One of our traps worked...
...without some unforeseen detail
going horribly wrong.
VELMA:
Uh, Freddie, look behind you.
Whoa.
[PSYCHEDELIC ROCK MUSIC PLAYING
ON STEREO]
See my face in the town that's flashing by
Watch out, Freddie! He's got a harpoon!
Huh?
Whoa!
I left it all behind
And yet I've traveled far
- Hey, buddy, need a lift?
- How far are you going?
[CREATURE GROWLING]
- Target in range!
- Excellent.
[DAPHNE STOMPS & CAPTOR 1 YELPS]
[SHANNON STOMPS
& CAPTOR 2 SCREAMS]
[CAPTORS GRUNTING]
Fire!
Jinkies!
[ALL GASP]
- Abandon ship!
- Aah!
[IAN YELLS]
Hit the brakes!
- IAN: Help!
- Sir Ian.
Throw me a line! I can't swim!
[IAN GASPING]
We've got to do something.
Hang on, Sir Ian! Help is on the way!
[ROARING]
I don't believe my eyes. She is real.
[METAL CLANGS]
[GASPS]
Who ever heard of a magnet
stopping a sea monster?
SHAGGY & SCOOBY:
Help!
This place is infested with monsters.
Guys, look out! That's where we set the...
...trap.
Oh, no!
[BOTH GROAN]
CREATURE: Roar!
BOTH: Huh?
[BOTH SCREAM]
Scooby! Shaggy! Are you guys okay?
Terrific, considering we're squashed under
the Loch Ness Monster.
BOTH:
Huh?
[BOTH SCREAM]
Monster? I don't think so.
Take another look.
SHAGGY & SCOOBY:
Huh?
SHAGGY:
Colin and Angus Haggart?
BOTH:
Rawr?
So if this one's a fake,
like, what about that one?
Time for this monster to hit the beach.
GANG:
Professor Fiona Pembrooke?
VELMA:
It's all very simple.
Professor Pembrooke
has been behind this all along.
She did a good job.
Scoob and I have been scared all along.
The locked hatch we found
on board her vessel...
...was actually a secret passageway.
FRED: It led to her homemade
monster submarine...
...she kept docked beneath her boat.
VELMA: She'd simply climb down the hatch
and pedal off into the loch.
DAPHNE: That way she could be free
to do her scaring...
...while we all thought
she was on the boat.
But it wasn't Shannon she was after,
or any of us.
It was really Sir Ian's attention
she wanted.
Me? What do I have to do
with any of this?
She was using fake monsters
to get you to believe in a real one.
Exactly.
She wanted you to become
a Nessie true believer yourself.
She couldn't count on Nessie
making an appearance...
...so she created her own.
And she hired Angus and Colin
to help her.
VELMA: Your sons were trying
to scare away the athletes...
...so they could win the games.
- It's not true.
- We don't even care about the games.
We just like a good practical joke.
That monster thing's the greatest joke
we ever pulled.
Aye, lots better than the hedgehog
in the toilet bowl.
The hedgehog in the toilet bowl!
That's a good one!
[ANGUS LAUGHS]
Ugh, I should have prayed harder
for daughters.
It's true. Ian would never have looked
at my new photos...
...unless he came to believe in the beast.
She had to find a way to convince him...
...and the Highland games at Blake Castle
offered her the perfect opportunity.
SHANNON: Ladies and gentlemen,
welcome to Blake Castle...
...and to the Loch Ness Highland Games.
And here to help us kick off the event
is a very special member of the Blake clan.
Please welcome Miss Daphne Blake.
[CROWD APPLAUDING]
Let the games begin!
[ALL CHEERING]
[GRUNTS]
[GRUNTING]
[CROWD CHEERING]
Yay!
[BAND PLAYING
"SCOTLAND THE BRAVE"]
[SHAGGY CHUCKLES]
Like, I never thought being a drum major
could be so major.
[HORN HONKS]
[SURF ROCK MUSIC PLAYING
ON STEREO]
Wow, Fred, like, the Mystery Machine
looks good as new.
Miss Blake! Miss Blake!
I demand to know what's going on.
Sir Ian, what's the matter?
All of you, down to the ship.
That's an order!
BOTH:
Aye, aye, captain.
- Another Pembrooke hoax, that's all it is.
- But where's it coming from?
The sonar camera from the minisub.
It's still transmitting a signal.
But, like, didn't that camera fall off
the submarine and sink?
Something must have passed
in front of the lens...
...and reactivated the sonar sensor.
- Ach, don't be ridiculous.
- Can you get a fix on the signal?
Now, see here.
Quadrant 4. Depth: 104 fathoms.
But that's over 600 feet below.
Much too deep
for any homemade submarine to survive.
It can't possibly be. I mean, really.
Psst. Show him your pictures.
Sir Ian, I don't expect you
to believe me, but here.
Great Scott. These are fantastic.
Miss Blake, I'm terribly sorry...
...but I must resign from my post
as games judge, effective immediately.
Ian, you mean you actually believe me?
Well, ahem, the evidence will, of course,
have to be verified by a third party.
Check it out! These are great.
What are you using here?
Wide-angle lens, right?
Very well, grab your bags, both of you.
We've got a lot of work ahead of us.
Chop-chop.
We don't want to lose her again.
Aye, aye, man.
Well, it looks like you've got
another mystery on your hands.
And none of this would have been possible
without you meddling kids.
We try.
SHANNON:
Well, cousin, I believe...
...we've just given Blake Castle
its wildest story ever.
DAPHNE:
Thank you, for everything, Shannon.
Oh, no, thank you.
None of this could have been possible
without you and your great friends.
Like, maybe next year
there can be an event...
...called "the long-distance
Daphne Blake suitcase carry."
FRED:
Well, gang, that was some mystery.
I'm actually kind of glad we never found
the real Loch Ness Monster.
- You are? Why?
- VELMA: I don't know.
Maybe some mysteries
are just better left unsolved.
[CREATURE MOANS]
Huh? Scooby-Dooby-Doo?
[English - US - SDH]